[Music]
this pack of football cards cost just
one pound seems about right but people
are now spending
thousands of pounds to get their
favorite players
now big money collectibles are nothing
new but in the last year the trading
card industry has blown up
according to ebay where a lot of cards
are sold sales have skyrocketed
by a hundred and forty two percent
that's around
four million cards and these cars have
also gotten caught up in the nft mania
with their digital version selling for
high prices
so rare are one company who are trying
to capitalize on the surge
they sell digital football cards using
blockchain technology to collect
trade even play a fantasy football game
with
and massive footballers and clubs are
promoting the platform
just like the rarest physical football
cars the most
sought after nfts are fetching
incredibly high prices
the priciest sorry token a killian in
batman card
was sold for more than 25 000 pounds
and there's big money being spent
elsewhere in the world of digital sports
collectibles
in the us clips of basketball stars are
being made into moments by nba topshop
if you want to see elite athletes make a
slamming block like this
you can go to youtube and watch it if
you want to own that play
in a way that no one else can the league
might just sell it to you for hundreds
of
thousands of dollars but who would want
to pay
that kind of money for what is
essentially a blockchain enabled gif
well this guy did his name is jesse
schwartz and he spent an obscene
amount on this lebron james dunk
how much exactly was that jesse two
hundred and eight thousand dollars
it was the record-setting purchase 200
why well for starters i thought it was
more fun than buying a house or
something like that
i mean i was doing beanie babies pokemon
and sneakers when i was probably
eight nine years old and top shot
was something i got on a few months ago
and it just really spoke to me because
it really felt like the early days of
collecting
and being able to buy sell stuff like i
used to do on ebay when i was younger
and it just felt like that 208 thousand
dollars even though it was the record it
was really good value
it's worth seven figures right now okay
i've got to ask you know and i'm sure
many other people out there are
wondering as well
this gif is not restricted people can
still use it not just you so
does that devalue it for you at all that
anyone can still use it
to me it's the total opposite so the
analogy one analogy i like to use is
the mona lisa everyone knows there's one
mona lisa
and anyone can go make a fake mona lisa
but there's only one
and all that attention when people are
using the mona lisa whether it's a meme
or a postcard or whatever it may be that
just
increases the value of the mona lisa
because
it popularizes that image and it's the
same thing here the more people that
watch this highlight
the better now as jesse said he was a
keen collector of pokemon cards
back in the 90s well
so was i i owned tons of them
and now in the past year they've made a
bit of a resurgence
content creators have made loads of
videos full of nostalgia
opening very old card packs
and because of the online hype ebay has
seen pokemon cards being traded this
year
up 574 percent
from 2019 and the money
they're going for wow
take this card i got it in a pack when i
was a kid
dark raichu a secret rare i checked
online about
10 years ago to see how much one of
these would go for first edition
mint condition about 50 quid
now 850 pounds
but why are these cars selling for so
much all of a sudden
duplicates something like that and a
maltress
i've definitely seen a big surge in the
popularity in the prices of a lot of
these pokemon cards solely because
of the internet culture surrounding it
there's a lot of people
making videos on it there's a lot of
people talking about it posting about it
they have some kind of nostalgia with
them
get a sealed box of pokemon cards from
the early 2000s or late 90s
face set is like 50 000 for a 100 box of
cards
it's insane my collection nowadays
because of the last year and a half
is probably worth a quarter million
dollars
if i were to get it graded and like that
and all that but it's mine it's mine
so good old physical collectibles are
still relevant and
highly sought after but in the future
will
digital collectibles take over well
let's ask the next generation of
collectors who are going to grow up with
both
nfts and physical cards come on you guys
so i think it's really important to
um play with people with these kind of
cards face to face and interact
and interact with people properly i
would prefer
cards because then you can actually like
give them to
people otherwise that if you're doing it
online
you'll have to do from a different
device and
they'll be very complicated
yeah you you miss out on the social
elements but
digital only nfts can also be anything
drawings gifs music videos tweets
the potential scope goes way beyond
what's collected physically
personally i'm attached to the nostalgia
of physical cards
but for the next generation of
collectors that might not be
the case
you